he cor f a more in-depth research, w
9 } who are easily available. It is
mpling, we do not have strong evidence
es may represent the populations being studied
iy 0 doubting the samples in most cases.
. Purposive Sampling HR Re a
rposive sampling, we will take samples with a purpose that had ——————
viewers who collect information by interviewing people passing by ~~ St2tstcs Aubory
jo Hea y they're doing a purposive sampling and that youn
also et de den . They might be looking for respondents intendedto ~~
| certain age group by means of assessing people passing by who fall ~~ provide the price
oth e category they are looking for, and then conduct the interviews. hs pl
e first thing they would do is to ensure that the respondents meet the of the Producer's
tablished criteria. Price Index for
Insituations where we need to get samples quickly, and proportionality meniecty ie
ot the main concern, purposive sampling methods can be very useful. included in the
Ve can easily obtain information from our target population by using a sample, NSO uses
urposive sample, but we may also be biased towards certain groups of RPO SE
fespondents because they are easily approachable. yes Sd or identity
The methods listed below can be considered as subcategories of the commodities for
urposive sampling methods. We may do sampling for certain groups the market basket
f people as in modal instance, expert or quota sampling. We may also
ake samples for diversity as in heterogeneity sampling, or we can take
advantage of informal social groups to identify specific respondents who
are hard to find as in snowball sampling. In these methods, we always
know what we need—we perform sampling with a purpose.
iL. Modal Instance Sampling
When sampling using the modal instance method, we are actually
sampling the most ‘typical’ (frequent) case. In most public opinion studies,
“We always interview some ‘typical respondents. However, there are
several common problems with this type of approach. Firstly, do we know
~ What a ‘typical case means? We might say that ‘typical’ refers to those in
the population with age, education and income that fall in the middle or
| erage category. But this does not indicate whether this approach is fair
and appropriate. How do we know that the age, education and income
are the most relevant variables to classify the ‘typical respondents? What
if the religion and ethnicity are also important variables? Hence, it is